Education in US: shift from true education to job training. 
Individual citizens become consumers. 

--

Social contract. Who's in vs. out of the SC. Is participation entirely voluntary? If you exclude , e.g., black people, foreigners, is it an SC? Can you have different tiers of inclusion? Different levels of tightness?

History:

We tell ourselves that we have one origin story. But we really have at least three.

Story of 1776: We founded a new republic w/ representative democracy and full, equal participation. Appeals to universal enlightenment values, concepts. Nothing about this is really specific to N. American georgraphy.

Second story is one of American Exceptionalism. We left corrupt Europe behind, created a new Shining city on the hill. Create a new republic based on christian principles.

Third story: The US is basically a hustle: a place to do business, get rich however you can. Story of Jamestown, VA. Founded essentially by venture capitalists. Goal: return on investment. like /east india company, or Exxon. Political model: rule of oligarchs. 

These three models of who has the legitimate right to rule were all introduced. Egalitarian, elightenment model is the latest, never completely took over.

Those who argue that US was founded as a Christian (or white) nation have a lot of history on their side.

The US Constitution is very clearly a compromise between the Enlightenment narrative and the Oligarch narrative. 

Viewed this way, it is not at all surprising that these narratives are in tension, and even occasionally in explosive conflict.

PL: Useful to distinguish *four* narratives: Oligarchic, White Supremecist, Theocratic, Enlightenment. 

Over time, shifting alliances between these narratives.

Trumpism is an alliance between White Supremacy, Oligarchy, and Theocracy.

Question: Historically, it is almost a miracle that Enlightenment values have acheived so much. How?

Original constitution was a massive patchwork of compromises.

But gradually, with amendments etc., the Enlightenment values gained ground. 

Complaints from conservatives: things have gone "too far".

How come Jamestown didn't become the model for the whole US?

One answer: the Enlightenment values are just marketing. (Don't believe that.)

Another answer: African slavery kept US from reproducing class stratification of the U.S. African slavery and White democracy were mutually reinforcing. In every society there is a laboring underclass. They occasionally rebel. Oligarchs can resolve the issue by using skin pigment to differentiate the underclass from the middle class. Grant the middle class democracy among themselves. The whole is a stable equilibrium. Then slavery was a *necessary precondition* for liberal democracy. 

So "Why did democracy  work here and not elsewhere?" can be answered: you need the slave underclass to keep the system stable.

The economy is fueled by extremely cheap labor. For the "Ins," economic conditions are acceptable. Chinese and Irish underclass supported the economic preconditions.

[Find this narrative interesting, but not definitively convinced.]

John Locke, Social Contract Theory + printing press were necessary conditions, but not sufficient. 

PL: In the Enlightenment, were several interconnected themes:

* Autonomy; 
* The Social Contract -- connections between autonomy and the right to rule;
* Science. (+ Reason.)

These three strands together gained more and more confirmation because of the mutual support of these three things in different areas.

Example: Emergence of a new class of rich people who were not nobility, not land owners (i.e., merchant and industrial class) was associated with one notion of autonomy that was in the economic realm. "I can succeed even if I don't have the pedigree." Pedigree does not entitle economic success. Autonomy <=> personal initiative.

Success of Science gave credence to the Enlightenment. Very idea of the Enl is that Reason will free humanity.

Hypothesis that science will free humanity from its terrible conditions -- its success gave credence to the englightenment. Success of these new classes gave new credence to the universal idea. 

Science, entrepreneurship gave more credence to the enlightenment success. 

---

Concept of "fly-over country". Non-agricultural areas are more prone to breaking boundaries. Connecting beyond themselves.

Money is flexible, fungible. "Rootless cosmipolitanism." 

Physical conditions 



-----

"Autocratic legalism." 
