The thesis:

The current conditions in the US (the world) conclusively demonstrate that the foundation of our social arrangement cannot be founded on social contract theory alone.
Stable and viable foundation that serves the goal of human flourishing must include an explicit role for a set of covenantal values.

In this paper we will show that all previous foundings of the nation were flawed because they were based solely on the foundation of social contract.

-----

Pini:

Conflicts 

Even those foundational values -- there are conflicts among them.

Higher order values are not absolute: they are directional.

Even when making values-based policy, there are conflicts among values that must be resolved. As well as between interests and values.

It's a dynamic thing that must be renewed, revised.

PL: 

Dynamic nature, dependence on empirical conditions.

Conflicts between values arise as they are applied to empirical conditions.
Values can themselves be revised in light of empirical conditions, via learning and discussion.

(Which to include in the summary?)

[Stylistically: Start with a clear, strong opening thesis statement. Even if it would require qualifications as we go.]

"The primary thesis is... this thesis could be broken down into..."

1. Current arrangements are not working. 
2. The causes are structural, deep, not resolveable with minor fixes, need foundational attention.

Challenge: Why can't our current challenges be resolved through constitutional amendments process?

PL: Written laws alone cannot protect against deterioration of these arrangements.

Why does a written covenant not face the same challenge that we say attacks the written constitution?

PL: There is a mechanism to "enforce" the covenant: They are geared toward human flourishing.

PBO: 

* Argument against originalism.
* The covenant is the guide to constitutional interpretation. 

PL: There was a debate: Should one think of the constitutiona in *procedural terms only*, vs. in terms of values?

Lawrence Tribe: The constitution is *value-laden*. Cannot think of it solely in terms of procedure.

An in-depth defense is outside the scope of the initial 5-10 page article. But the system is sufficiently rich to allow for mounting such an in-depth.

What are the elements of a covenant that sheild against re-interpretation and subversion?

PL: Ceremony must be matched by *grounding*: Values must be matched by some concrete reality. If there were such a grounding, PBO's threat could be limited.

Covenental values are grounded in a concrete reality: human flourishing. We can empirically identify these.

Contracts also have a grounding, in parochial interests.

PBO: Develop a case study. E.g., abortion law in TX, SCOTUS reaction. Assume we had a covenant. How would the SCOTUS act differently? "The covenant at work." 

PL: This will force us to spell out how this will work in the context of a concrete. 

PBO: On abortion: Human flourishing justifies a right to abortion, more than a right to privacy.

PBO: Bi-furcation: liberal, social contract vs. communitarian, historicist: must be grounded in the values of the community in historical context.
Multiples foundings: a narrative about history.
The values must be grounded in the community and history.

PL: Have to worry about Rawls. Rawls envsions a system that founds a just society : Principles generated from original position under a veil of ignorance.
Counter-argument: this is a practical impossibility.

Veil of ignorance => select principles that will protect your interests in any state of the world.

PBO: *Don't* rely on higher-order values. 

To fit this theory about the covenant in Rawls is in the context of the communitarian/historicist challenge.

Case: Globalization, global cooperation to solve global problems.
What about international relations? This is about more than the U.S. 

PBO: Higher-order values offer a natural way to address the place of the U.S. in the world. As a procedural document, constitution is only about governance of the country driven by national interests.

PL: Humanity *as a whole* is a steward of the Earth. The notion of stewardship may drive how we engage with the rest of the world. Other examples: global finance; pandemic. 




